# Resources and Localization

## Adding Resources

1. Start with the application from lab 7
1. Create a new folder in the project called *Resources*
1. Resources are contained in .resx files. A single resx file will typically 
line up with either a controller or a model. In our case, let's localize the 
error messages given if constraints on our models aren't satisfied. 
1. Look at your `Product` model class and remember it's namespace.
1. Right click on the resources folder and select *Add* and then *New Item*.
1. Add a Resources File. Make sure it's name X.en-US.resx where X is the 
name of your `Product` class including the namespace, but *removing the first
part of the namespace if it matches the assembly name*. In my case, my 
`Product` class is in the `AspNetCoreWorkshop.Models` namespace, but the name 
of the assembly is *AspNetCoreWorkshop*, so the name for my Resources 
file is *Models.Product.en-US.resx*.
1. Add a resource to the resx file (using the resource editor UI) with a name 
of "NameRequired" and a value of "Product name is required".
1. Save the resources file and rebuild the application.

## Use Resources in Data Annotations

1. Update the `[Required]` attribute on `Product.Name` to specify the 
resource to use if the requirement is not met.

    ```CSharp
    [Required(ErrorMessage = "NameRequired")]
    public string Name { get; set; }
    ```
1. Navigate to *Startup.cs* so that we can register the resources we wish to 
use in the dependency injection container.
1. Add the following call in `Startup.ConfigureServices`

    ```CSharp
    // Add localization services (StringLocalizer, HtmlLocalizer, etc. with 
    // resources from the given path)
    services.AddLocalization(options => options.ResourcesPath = "Resources");
    ```
1. Update the `services.AddMvc()` call in `Startup.ConfigureServices` to 
chain a call to `AddDataAnnotationsLocalization()`.

    ```CSharp
    services.AddMvc()
        .AddDataAnnotationsLocalization() // Localize data annotation error messages
        .AddXmlDataContractSerializerFormatters();    
    ```
1. If you set DefaultCulture to en-AU *appsettings.json* in a previous lab, 
change it to en-US (since we have registered en-US resources rather than 
en-AU ones).
1. Launch the application and try to add a new Product with an empty name. 
Notice that the returned error uses our string.

## Use Resources in a Controller

1. Let's add a new resources file for the 
`OrdersController` class. 
1. Last time we added a resx file, we included the full namespace of the 
associated type (minus assembly name) in the resx file name. It's also 
possible to include segments of the namespace as folders containing the resx 
file, though. Let's do that this time so that both naming conventions will be 
exercised in our sample.
1. Create a *Controllers* folder inside the *Resources* folder and, in 
that folder, create a resx file named *OrdersController.en-US.resx*.
1. Add a resource with name "OrderNotFound" and value "Order {0} not found".
1. Add another resx file - this time with a culture of fr-FR 
(*OrdersController.fr-FR.resx*).
1. Give the French resource file a resource with the same name 
(OrderNotFound) but with a value of "Ordre {0} introuvable"
1. Update `OrdersController`'s constructor to take an 
`IStringLocalizer<OrdersController>` parameter and store the value in a 
private field.

    ```CSharp
    private readonly StoreContext _context;
    private readonly IStringLocalizer<OrdersController> _localizer;

    public OrdersController(StoreContext context, IStringLocalizer<OrdersController> localizer)
    {
        _context = context;
        _localizer = localizer;
    }
    ```
1. Update the `GetOrder(int id)` method to pass 
`_localizer["OrderNotFound", id].Value` to its call to `NotFound`
1. Launch the application and navigate to 
http://localhost:8081/api/Orders/10 and notice the error
1. Now, navigate to 
http://localhost:8081/api/Orders/10?Culture=fr-FR and 
notice the localized message

## Using Proper Localization Middleware

In the previous lab, we added custom middleware to set request culture. This 
was just for learning purposes, though. ASP.NET Core ships with more fully 
featured middleware for setting request culture that should be used instead.

1. Comment out the call to `app.UseRequestCulture()` in `Startup.Configure`
1. Call `app.UseRequestLocalization` instead to use the official ASP.NET Core
localization middleware.

    ```CSharp
    var supportedCultures = new[]
    {
            new CultureInfo("en-US"),
            new CultureInfo("fr-FR"),
    };

    app.UseRequestLocalization(new RequestLocalizationOptions
    {
        DefaultRequestCulture = new RequestCulture("en-US"),
        SupportedCultures = supportedCultures,
        SupportedUICultures = supportedCultures
    });    
    ```
1. Run the app again to confirm that localization still works as expected.
    1. In fact, with this middleware, current culture can be requested in more 
    ways - with a query string, a cookie, or with an accept-language header